[Music]
ten easy ways to handle an emergency
situation at one point or another most
of us have been taught what to do in an
emergency situation but it's not that
easy to remember these things when we
really find ourselves in extreme
circumstances that's why it's so
important to revisit this information as
often as possible remember knowing what
to do when faced with a threat can mean
the difference between life and death
[Music]
how to survive if you're caught in a
strong current you might think that
swimming in a river or lake is safer
than taking a dip in the sea but that's
not exactly true fresh water is often
colder and takes more energy and skill
to get out of because it doesn't support
your body like salt water does and you
shouldn't forget about river currents
either they're no less dangerous than
the ones in the sea if you find yourself
caught in a river current don't panic
and don't flail your limbs this can
easily pull you underwater
breathe deeply because the air you
inhale will help you float better don't
try to swim across the current or
upstream choose a diagonal line that
will eventually bring you to the shore
the best option is at a 45-degree angle
if the waters are really rapid turn on
your back and make sure that your feet
point downstream this way your head is
protected if you encounter any debris or
rocks you won't get a concussion as soon
as the current loses some of its
strength swim to the shore as we're
getting caught in a sea current the
first rule is the same stay calm don't
panic and don't flail around and don't
even try to fight the current it'll come
out the undefeated champion simply cut
across the current diagonally because it
doesn't typically expand along the whole
shoreline as soon as you feel you've
broken free from its grips swim back to
the shore
what to do in case of a fire if you're
with your close ones when the fire
starts agree on a meeting place outside
in case you get separated when smoke
starts filling the room
don't walk smoke initially goes up
towards the ceiling and only after that
does it go down it's imperative to keep
the stuff from getting in your lungs
since smoke contains toxic gases that
can kill a person in 20 minutes if they
don't get help that's why the best
strategy is to stay low and crawl to the
nearest exit as soon as possible and
don't even think about going through a
window or waiting it out
you should never open a window in a
burning building and definitely don't
try to hide inside if you're dealing
with an electrical fire never use water
to extinguish it how to save yourself if
you're choking there are different ways
you can save yourself if you're choking
and there's nobody around to help you
method 1 make a fist and place it below
your ribcage and above your belly button
cup it with your other hand and quickly
thrust it into your abdomen up towards
your diaphragm method to lean over a
chair and press your abdomen against the
back of it
method 3 get on the floor as if you're
about to do push ups take a short breath
in lift your head and allow your chest
to hit the floor remember don't speak
don't drink anything and don't inhale
deeply
[Music]
what to do if you're bleeding nosebleeds
you've probably heard if you have blood
coming out of your nose you should tilt
your head back or lie down and wait
until the bleeding stops
this is a dangerous misconception
because blood can get into your throat
if you're dealing with a nosebleed
lean your head forward and block your
nostrils with your thumb and index
finger keep holding it for about 10
minutes and then let it go
minor bleeding if you've accidentally
nicked yourself in the kitchen or
wherever first clean the cut with cold
running water after that use hydrogen
peroxide to prevent infection then apply
a sterile bandage veinous bleeding if
the bleeding is a bit heavier first use
hydrogen peroxide then apply a firm
bandage it's extremely important to keep
the injury elevated arterial bleeding if
the bleeding is more severe start by
applying a firm bandage keep applying
pressure to the wound even after the
bandage is in place bend the injured leg
or arm and place direct pressure on the
artery most crucial of all call for
emergency medical assistance as soon as
possible severe bleeding in the case of
the most severe bleeding place a sterile
bandage on the wound press it firmly
with your palm and immediately call EMS
remember use a tourniquet only as a last
resort if the bleeding doesn't stop if
you do note what time you applied the
tourniquet and don't leave it on for any
longer than one hour in the summer and
thirty minutes in the winter otherwise
the tissues will start to die
if you're dehydrated
if you experience extreme thirst feel
exhausted dizzy and confused you might
be suffering from dehydration if this is
the case your body desperately needs
more liquid to restore balance the
perfect solution is four cups of water
mixed with 1 teaspoon of salt 2
tablespoons of sugar and 1/2 teaspoon of
baking soda another option is a glass of
orange juice with half a teaspoon of
salt and one teaspoon of baking soda
dilute this mixture with 4 cups of water
and drink it in case of hypothermia if
someone is suffering from hypothermia
cover the victim with warm blankets make
sure that not only the body but also the
head and feet are covered don't rub the
victims arms or legs it can damage the
skin never put them in a tub of hot
water and don't give them alcohol to
drink if you get lost in the woods in
this case you can use your wristwatch to
find your direction hold an analogue
watch horizontally in your hand and
imagine a wedge-shaped piece making the
area between the our hand and the number
1 the center of this angle is the
north-south line don't use tree branches
Moss growth and Anne Hills to figure out
your direction they're not as reliable
as you think before heading into the
forest pick out objects on the map as
markers it can be power lines roads
railways or whatever and determine the
direction of movement towards them
how to find water in the wild there are
several methods you can use to get water
in the wild method one use a string to
tie a plastic bag to the end of a tree
branch this will create a little
greenhouse and will fill with
condensation method to dig a pit in the
ground put a plastic sheet over it and
place an empty container inside to
collect water put a small stone in the
middle of the construction to make
condensing water drip right into the
container remember though you must boil
this water before drinking it treating
minor burns for any type of burnt
immediately remove any jewelry or tight
clothing before the swelling starts
later it may become impossible if the
burn is thermal hold it under cold
running water for about 10 to 15 minutes
then cover the burn with a sterile
bandage or a clean cloth if the burn has
been caused by acid keep it under cold
running water as well then use a
neutralizing solution made of soap or
baking soda and water after that loosely
apply a sterile bandage or a clean cloth
to treat an alkaline burn you first need
to remove the remnants of the substance
again hold the burn under cold running
water for 10 to 15 minutes and use the
neutralizing solution of soap or baking
soda and water only after that can you
apply a sterile bandage or a clean cloth
for any type of burn never use oil
cotton pads ice or iodine and if you got
burned with a quick lime or aluminum you
mustn't place the burn under water in
this case call for help immediately
have you ever been in one of these
situations let us know how you handled
it in the comments below share this
extremely important video with your
friends and relatives and hit that like
button for this useful information
subscribe to our Channel you'll always
find something new and interesting on
the bright side of life